Docker Desktop 4.18.0 release notes (#16982)
docker/docs: desktop/release-notes.md

For frequently asked questions about Docker Desktop releases, see [FAQs](faqs/general.md/#releases)

## 4.18.0

> {% include release-date.html date="2023-04-03" %}

Author: updated the date

- You can now search for extensions direct from the Marketplace, as well as using **Global Search**.
- Fixed a bug where `docker buildx` container builders would lose access to the network after 24hrs.
- Reduced how often users are prompted for feedback on Docker Desktop.
- Removed minimum VM swap size.
- Added support for subdomain match, CIDR match, `.` and `_.` in HTTP proxy exclude lists.
- Fixed a bug in the transparent TLS proxy when the Server Name Indication field is not set.
- Fixed a grammatical error in Docker Desktop engine status message.

### For Windows

- Fixed a bug where `docker run --gpus=all` hangs. Fixes [docker/for-win#13333](https://github.com/docker/for-win/issues/13333).
- Fixed a bug where Registry Access Management policy updates were not downloaded.
- Docker Desktop now allows Windows containers to work when BitLocker is enabled on `C:`.

### For Mac

- Fixed a performance issue where attributes stored on the host would not be cached for VirtioFS users.

> ### For Linux

Author: added new entry

Reviewer: LGTM

- Fixes a bug where the VM networking crashes after 24h. [docker/for-linux#131](https://github.com/docker/desktop-linux/issues/131)

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

### Security
#### MacOS
- Removed the `com.apple.security.cs.allow-dyld-environment-variables` and `com.apple.security.cs.disable-library-validation` entitlements which allow an arbitrary dynamic library to be loaded with the Docker Desktop app via the `DYLD_INSERT_LIBRARIES` environment variable.
```

Author: Added!

For frequently asked questions about Docker Desktop releases, see [FAQs](faqs/general.md/#releases)

## 4.18.0

{% include release-date.html date="2023-03-30" %}

> Download Docker Desktop
>
> {% include desktop-install.html %}

### New

> - Initial beta release of `docker init` per [docker/roadmap/issues/453](https://github.com/docker/roadmap/issues/453).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Initial beta release of `docker init` as per [the roadmap](https://github.com/docker/roadmap/issues/453).
```

### Upgrades

- [Buildx v0.10.4](https://github.com/docker/buildx/releases/tag/v0.10.4)
- [Compose 2.17.2](https://github.com/docker/compose/releases/tag/v2.17.2)
- Containerd [v1.6.18](https://github.com/containerd/containerd/releases/tag/v1.6.18), which includes fixes for [CVE-2023-25153](https://github.com/advisories/GHSA-259w-8hf6-59c2) and [CVE-2023-25173](https://github.com/advisories/GHSA-hmfx-3pcx-653p).
- [criTools v1.26.1](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/cri-tools/releases/tag/v1.26.1)
- [cri-dockerd v0.3.1](https://github.com/Mirantis/cri-dockerd/releases/tag/v0.3.1)
- [coredns v1.9.3](https://github.com/coredns/coredns/releases/tag/v1.9.3)
- [cni v1.2.0](https://github.com/containernetworking/plugins/releases/tag/v1.2.0)
- [Kubernetes v1.26.3](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/releases/tag/v1.26.3)

### Bug fixes and enhancements

> - [Docker Scout CLI](https://docs.docker.com/scout/#docker-scout-cli) can compare two images and display packages and vulnerabilities differences. This command is in early preview and might change in the future.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Docker Scout CLI](../scout/index.md#docker-scout-cli) can now compare two images and display packages and vulnerabilities differences. This command is in [Early Access](../release-lifecycle.md) and might change in the future.
```

> - [Docker Scout CLI](https://docs.docker.com/scout/#docker-scout-cli) now displays base image update and remediation recommendations using `docker scout recommendations` and an short overview of an image using `docker scout quickview` commands.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Docker Scout CLI](../scout/index.md#docker-scout-cli) now displays base image update and remediation recommendations using `docker scout recommendations`. It also displays a short overview of an image using `docker scout quickview` commands.
```

> - You can now search for extensions in **Global Search** and in the Marketplace.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- You can now search for extensions direct from the Marketplace, as well as using **Global Search**.
```

> - Fix bug where `docker buildx` container builders would lose access to the network after 24hrs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Fixed bug where `docker buildx` container builders would lose access to the network after 24hrs.
```

- Reduced how often users are prompted for feedback on Docker.
- Removed minimum VM swap size.

> - Added a new Learning Center tab to help users get started with Docker.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Added a new **Learning Center** tab to help users get started with Docker.
```
I'd also move this up to the 'New' section

> - Add support for subdomain match, CIDR match, `.` and `_.` in HTTP proxy exclude lists.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Added support for subdomain match, CIDR match, `.` and `_.` in HTTP proxy exclude lists.
```

> - Fix bug in the transparent TLS proxy when the Server Name Indication field is not set.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Fixed a bug in the transparent TLS proxy when the Server Name Indication field is not set.
```

- Fixed a grammatical error in Docker Desktop engine status message.

### For Windows

- Fixed a bug where `docker run --gpus=all` hangs. Fixes [docker/for-win#13333](https://github.com/docker/for-win/issues/13333).

> - Add support for enhanced container isolation in Windows hosts with WSL.

Reviewer: I think this needs to be removed? I think it's being shipped in 4.19 instead. @MihaelaStoica @christophermclellan can you confirm?

Reviewer 2: Yes, it needs removed. Thanks for spotting it!

> - Fix bug where Registry Access Management policy updates were not downloaded.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Fixed a bug where Registry Access Management policy updates were not downloaded.
```

> - Allow Windows containers to work when BitLocker is enabled on `C:`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Docker Desktop now allows Windows containers to work when BitLocker is enabled on `C:`.
```

### For Mac

> - Fix a performance issue where attributes stored on the host would not be cached for VirtioFS users.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Fixed a performance issue where attributes stored on the host would not be cached for VirtioFS users.
```

- Added a new **Learning Center** tab to help users get started with Docker.

### Upgrades

- [Buildx v0.10.4](https://github.com/docker/buildx/releases/tag/v0.10.4)
- [Compose 2.17.2](https://github.com/docker/compose/releases/tag/v2.17.2)
- [Containerd v1.6.18](https://github.com/containerd/containerd/releases/tag/v1.6.18), which includes fixes for [CVE-2023-25153](https://github.com/advisories/GHSA-259w-8hf6-59c2) and [CVE-2023-25173](https://github.com/advisories/GHSA-hmfx-3pcx-653p).

### Bug fixes and enhancements

#### For all platforms

- [Docker Scout CLI](../scout/index.md#docker-scout-cli) can now compare two images and display packages and vulnerabilities differences. This command is in [Early Access](../release-lifecycle.md) and might change in the future.
- [Docker Scout CLI](../scout/index.md#docker-scout-cli) now displays base image update and remediation recommendations using `docker scout recommendations`. It also displays a short overview of an image using `docker scout quickview` commands.
- You can now search for extensions direct from the Marketplace, as well as using **Global Search**.

> - Fixed a bug where `docker buildx` container builders would lose access to the network after 24hrs.

Reviewer 3: Just realized that the Compose Watch line isn't in here yet!

Ideally we'd want to link the new docs on Watch, but the [PR](https://github.com/docker/docs/pull/17010) isn't yet merged.

```suggestion
- Docker Compose now has an experimental file watch command that will automatically update your running Compose services as you edit & save your code.
- Fixed a bug where `docker buildx` container builders would lose access to the network after 24hrs.
```

Reviewer 4: Or should we move that into the `### New` section similar to the `docker init`?

- Reduced how often users are prompted for feedback on Docker Desktop.
- Removed minimum VM swap size.
- Added support for subdomain match, CIDR match, `.` and `_.` in HTTP proxy exclude lists.
- Fixed a bug in the transparent TLS proxy when the Server Name Indication field is not set.
- Fixed a grammatical error in Docker Desktop engine status message.

### For Windows

- Fixed a bug where `docker run --gpus=all` hangs. Fixes [docker/for-win#13333](https://github.com/docker/for-win/issues/13333).
- Fixed a bug where Registry Access Management policy updates were not downloaded.
- Docker Desktop now allows Windows containers to work when BitLocker is enabled on `C:`.

### For Mac

- Fixed a performance issue where attributes stored on the host would not be cached for VirtioFS users.

### For Linux

> - Fixes a bug where the VM networking crashes after 24h. [docker/for-linux#131](https://github.com/docker/desktop-linux/issues/131)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Fixed a bug where the VM networking crashes after 24 hours. [docker/for-linux#131](https://github.com/docker/desktop-linux/issues/131)
```

### Security

#### For all platforms

> - Fixes security issue in Artifactory Integration where it would fallback to sending registry credentials over plain HTTP if HTTPS check failed. Fixes [docker/for-win#13344](https://github.com/docker/for-win/issues/13344).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Fixed a security issue with the Artifactory Integration where it would fall back to sending registry credentials over plain HTTP if HTTPS check failed. Fixes [docker/for-win#13344](https://github.com/docker/for-win/issues/13344).
```

> #### Mac

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### For Mac
```

> - Remove the com.apple.security.cs.allow-dyld-environment-variables and com.apple.security.cs.disable-library-validation entitlements which allow an arbitrary dynamic library to be loaded with Docker Desktop via the DYLD_INSERT_LIBRARIES environment variable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Removed the `com.apple.security.cs.allow-dyld-environment-variables` and `com.apple.security.cs.disable-library-validation` entitlements which allow an arbitrary dynamic library to be loaded with Docker Desktop via the `DYLD_INSERT_LIBRARIES` environment variable.
```

For frequently asked questions about Docker Desktop releases, see [FAQs](faqs/general.md/#releases)

## 4.18.0

{% include release-date.html date="2023-04-03" %}

> Download Docker Desktop
>
> {% include desktop-install.html %}

### New

- Initial beta release of `docker init` as per [the roadmap](https://github.com/docker/roadmap/issues/453).
- Added a new **Learning Center** tab to help users get started with Docker.

> - Docker Compose now has an experimental file watch command that will automatically update your running Compose services as you edit and save your code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Added an experimental file-watch command to Docker Compose that automatically updates your running Compose services as you edit and save your code.
```

- [Docker Scout CLI](../scout/index.md#docker-scout-cli) now displays base image update and remediation recommendations using `docker scout recommendations`. It also displays a short overview of an image using `docker scout quickview` commands.
- You can now search for extensions direct from the Marketplace, as well as using **Global Search**.
- Fixed a bug where `docker buildx` container builders would lose access to the network after 24hrs.
- Reduced how often users are prompted for feedback on Docker Desktop.
- Removed minimum VM swap size.
- Added support for subdomain match, CIDR match, `.` and `_.` in HTTP proxy exclude lists.
- Fixed a bug in the transparent TLS proxy when the Server Name Indication field is not set.
- Fixed a grammatical error in Docker Desktop engine status message.

### For Windows

- Fixed a bug where `docker run --gpus=all` hangs. Fixes [docker/for-win#13333](https://github.com/docker/for-win/issues/13333).
- Fixed a bug where Registry Access Management policy updates were not downloaded.
- Docker Desktop now allows Windows containers to work when BitLocker is enabled on `C:`.

> 

Reviewer: just a small tweak to clarify the sentence:

"Docker Desktop with the WSL backend no longer requires the `com.docker.service` privileged service to run permanently...."

### For Mac

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

- The first time Docker Desktop for Mac is launched, the user is presented with an installation window to confirm or adjust the configuration that requires privileged access. For more information see [Permission requirements for Mac](https://docs.docker.com/desktop/mac/permission-requirements/).
- Added the **Advanced** tab in **Settings**, where users can adjust the settings which require privileged access
```

### Bug fixes and enhancements

#### For all platforms

- [Docker Scout CLI](../scout/index.md#docker-scout-cli) can now compare two images and display packages and vulnerabilities differences. This command is in [Early Access](../release-lifecycle.md) and might change in the future.
- [Docker Scout CLI](../scout/index.md#docker-scout-cli) now displays base image update and remediation recommendations using `docker scout recommendations`. It also displays a short overview of an image using `docker scout quickview` commands.
- You can now search for extensions direct from the Marketplace, as well as using **Global Search**.
- Fixed a bug where `docker buildx` container builders would lose access to the network after 24hrs.
- Reduced how often users are prompted for feedback on Docker Desktop.
- Removed minimum VM swap size.
- Added support for subdomain match, CIDR match, `.` and `_.` in HTTP proxy exclude lists.
- Fixed a bug in the transparent TLS proxy when the Server Name Indication field is not set.
- Fixed a grammatical error in Docker Desktop engine status message.

### For Windows

> - Fixed a bug where `docker run --gpus=all` hangs. Fixes [docker/for-win#13333](https://github.com/docker/for-win/issues/13333).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Fixed a bug where `docker run --gpus=all` hangs. Fixes [docker/for-win#13324](https://github.com/docker/for-win/issues/13324).
```

Reviewer 2: Replaced the for-win issue with **13324**, because 13333 has already been closed as a dupe of 13324. Also, 13324 is the ticket referenced in 4.17.1 in known issues.

- The first time Docker Desktop for Mac is launched, the user is presented with an installation window to confirm or adjust the configuration that requires privileged access. For more information see [Permission requirements for Mac](https://docs.docker.com/desktop/mac/permission-requirements/).
- Added the **Advanced** tab in **Settings**, where users can adjust the settings which require privileged access.

### For Linux

- Fixed a bug where the VM networking crashes after 24h. [docker/for-linux#131](https://github.com/docker/desktop-linux/issues/131)

### Security

#### For all platforms

- Fixed a security issue with the Artifactory Integration where it would fall back to sending registry credentials over plain HTTP if HTTPS check failed. Only users who have `Access experimental features` enabled are affected. Fixes [docker/for-win#13344](https://github.com/docker/for-win/issues/13344).

#### For Mac

- Removed the `com.apple.security.cs.allow-dyld-environment-variables` and `com.apple.security.cs.disable-library-validation` entitlements which allow an arbitrary dynamic library to be loaded with Docker Desktop via the `DYLD_INSERT_LIBRARIES` environment variable.

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

### Known Issues

- Uninstalling Docker Desktop on Mac from the **Troubleshoot** page might trigger an unexpected fatal error popup. 

```

- Added the **Advanced** tab in **Settings**, where users can adjust the settings which require privileged access.

### For Linux

- Fixed a bug where the VM networking crashes after 24h. [docker/for-linux#131](https://github.com/docker/desktop-linux/issues/131)

### Security

#### For all platforms

- Fixed a security issue with the Artifactory Integration where it would fall back to sending registry credentials over plain HTTP if HTTPS check failed. Only users who have `Access experimental features` enabled are affected. Fixes [docker/for-win#13344](https://github.com/docker/for-win/issues/13344).

#### For Mac

- Removed the `com.apple.security.cs.allow-dyld-environment-variables` and `com.apple.security.cs.disable-library-validation` entitlements which allow an arbitrary dynamic library to be loaded with Docker Desktop via the `DYLD_INSERT_LIBRARIES` environment variable.

### Known Issues

> - **Dev environments** will not work properly when configuring the installation of Docker's CLI tools as User.

Reviewer 2: Add 
#### For Mac
or 
**Dev environments** will not work properly on Mac when....

Author: I took the second option!
